The fundamental plane of early-type galaxies is a rather tight
three-parameter correlation discovered more than twenty years ago. It has
resisted a both global and precise physical interpretation despite a consequent
number of works, observational, theoretical or using numerical simulations. It
appears that its precise properties depend on the population of galaxies in
study. Instead of selecting a priori these populations, we propose to
objectively construct homologous populations from multivariate analyses. We
have undertaken multivariate cluster and cladistic analyses of a sample of 56
low-redshift galaxy clusters containing 699 early-type galaxies, using four
parameters: effective radius, velocity dispersion, surface brightness averaged
over effective radius, and Mg2 index. All our analyses are consistent with
seven groups that define separate regions on the global fundamental plane, not
across its thickness. In fact, each group shows its own fundamental plane,
which is more loosely defined for less diversified groups. We conclude that the
global fundamental plane is not a bent surface, but made of a collection of
several groups characterizing several fundamental planes with different
thicknesses and orientations in the parameter space. Our diversification
scenario probably indicates that the level of diversity is linked to the number
and the nature of transforming events and that the fundamental plane is the
result of several transforming events. We also show that our classification,
not the fundamental planes, is universal within our redshift range (0.007 -
0.053). We find that the three groups with the thinnest fundamental planes
presumably formed through dissipative (wet) mergers. In one of them, this(ese)
merger(s) must have been quite ancient because of the relatively low
metallicity of its galaxies, Two of these groups have subsequently undergone
dry mergers to increase their masses. In the k-space, the third one clearly
occupies the region where bulges (of lenticular or spiral galaxies) lie and
might also have formed through minor mergers and accretions. The two least
diversified groups probably did not form by major mergers and must have been
strongly affected by interactions, some of the gas in the objects of one of
these groups having possibly been swept out. The interpretation, based on
specific assembly histories of galaxies of our seven groups, shows that they
are truly homologous. They were obtained directly from several observables,
thus independently of any a priori classification. The diversification scenario
relating these groups does not depend on models or numerical simulations, but
is objectively provided by the cladistic analysis. Consequently, our
classification is more easily compared to models and numerical simulations, and
our work can be readily repeated with additional observables.