The evolution of stars and planets is mostly controlled by the properties of
their atmosphere. This is particularly true in the case of exoplanets close to
their stars, for which one has to account both for an (often intense)
irradiation flux, and from an intrinsic flux responsible for the progressive
loss of the inner planetary heat. The goals of the present work are to help
understanding the coupling between radiative transfer and advection in
exoplanetary atmospheres and to provide constraints on the temperatures of the
deep atmospheres. This is crucial in assessing whether modifying assumed
opacity sources and/or heat transport may explain the inflated sizes of a
significant number of giant exoplanets found so far. I use a simple analytical
approach inspired by Eddington's approximation for stellar atmospheres to
derive a relation between temperature and optical depth valid for
plane-parallel static grey atmospheres which are both transporting an intrinsic
heat flux and receiving an outer radiation flux. The model is parameterized as
a function of mean visible and thermal opacities, respectively. The model is
shown to reproduce relatively well temperature profiles obtained from more
sophisticated radiative transfer calculations of exoplanetary atmospheres. It
naturally explains why a temperature inversion (stratosphere) appears when the
opacity in the optical becomes significant compared to that in the infrared. I
further show that the mean equivalent flux (proportional to T^4) is conserved
in the presence of horizontal advection on constant optical depth levels. This
implies with these hypotheses that the deep atmospheric temperature used as
outer boundary for the evolution models should be calculated from models
pertaining to the entire planetary atmosphere, not from ones that are relevant
to the day side or to the substellar point. In these conditions, present-day
models yield deep temperatures that are ~1000K too cold to explain the present
size of planet HD 209458b. An tenfold increase in the infrared to visible
opacity ratio would be required to slow the planetary cooling and contraction
sufficiently to explain its size. However, the mean equivalent flux is not
conserved anymore in the presence of opacity variations, or in the case of
non-radiative vertical transport of energy: The presence of clouds on the night
side or a downward transport of kinetic energy and its dissipation at deep
levels would help making the deep atmosphere hotter and may explain the
inflated sizes of giant exoplanets.