Background and Aims: Prediction of phenotypic traits from new genotypes under
untested environmental conditions is crucial to build simulations of breeding
strategies to improve target traits. Although the plant response to
environmental stresses is characterized by both architectural and functional
plasticity, recent attempts to integrate biological knowledge into genetics
models have mainly concerned specific physiological processes or crop models
without architecture, and thus may prove limited when studying genotype x
environment interactions. Consequently, this paper presents a simulation study
introducing genetics into a functional-structural growth model, which gives
access to more fundamental traits for quantitative trait loci (QTL) detection
and thus to promising tools for yield optimization. Methods: The GreenLab model
was selected as a reasonable choice to link growth model parameters to QTL.
Virtual genes and virtual chromosomes were defined to build a simple genetic
model that drove the settings of the species-specific parameters of the model.
The QTL Cartographer software was used to study QTL detection of simulated
plant traits. A genetic algorithm was implemented to define the ideotype for
yield maximization based on the model parameters and the associated allelic
combination. Key Results and Conclusions: By keeping the environmental factors
constant and using a virtual population with a large number of individuals
generated by a Mendelian genetic model, results for an ideal case could be
simulated. Virtual QTL detection was compared in the case of phenotypic traits
- such as cob weight - and when traits were model parameters, and was found to
be more accurate in the latter case. The practical interest of this approach is
illustrated by calculating the parameters (and the corresponding genotype)
associated with yield optimization of a GreenLab maize model. The paper
discusses the potentials of GreenLab to represent environment x genotype
interactions, in particular through its main state variable, the ratio of
biomass supply over demand.