We present high-sensitivity 2'x4' maps of the J=2-1 rotational lines of SiO,
CO, 13CO and C18O, observed toward the filamentary Infrared Dark Cloud (IRDC)
G035.39-00.33. Single-pointing spectra of the SiO J=2-1 and J=3-2 lines toward
several regions in the filament, are also reported. The SiO images reveal that
SiO is widespread along the IRDC (size >2 pc), showing two different
components: one bright and compact arising from three condensations (N, E and
S), and the other weak and extended along the filament. While the first
component shows broad lines (linewidths of ~4-7 kms-1) in both SiO J=2-1 and
SiO J=3-2, the second one is only detected in SiO J=2-1 and has narrow lines
(~0.8 kms-1). The maps of CO and its isotopologues show that low-density
filaments are intersecting the IRDC and appear to merge toward the densest
portion of the cloud. This resembles the molecular structures predicted by
flow-driven, shock-induced and magnetically-regulated cloud formation models.
As in outflows associated with low-mass star formation, the excitation
temperatures and fractional abundances of SiO toward N, E and S, increase with
velocity from ~6 to 40 K, and from ~1E-10 to >1E-8 respectively, over a
velocity range of ~7 kms-1. Since 8 micron sources, 24 micron sources and/or
extended 4.5 micron emission are detected in N, E and S, broad SiO is likely
produced in outflows associated with high-mass protostars. The excitation
temperatures and fractional abundances of the narrow SiO lines, however, are
very low (~9 K and ~1E-11, respectively), and consistent with the processing of
interstellar grains by the passage of a shock with vs~12 kms-1. This emission
could be generated i) by a large-scale shock, perhaps remnant of the IRDC
formation process; ii) by decelerated or recently processed gas in large-scale
outflows driven by 8 micron and 24 micron sources; or iii) by an undetected and
widespread population of lower mass protostars. High-angular resolution
observations are needed to disentangle between these three scenarios.