The transition from the L to the T spectral type of brown dwarfs is marked by
a very rapid transition phase, remarkable brightening in the J-band and a
higher binary frequency. Despite being an active area of inquiry, this
transition regime still remains one of the most poorly understood phases of
brown dwarf evolution. We resolved the L dwarf 2MASS J03105986+1648155 for the
first time into two almost equally bright components straddling the L/T
transition. Since such a co-eval system with common age and composition
provides crucial information of this special transition phase, we monitored the
system over 3 years to derive first orbital parameters and dynamical mass
estimates, as well as a spectral type determination. We obtained resolved high
angular resolution, near-IR images with HST and the adaptive optics instrument
NACO at the VLT including the laser guide star system PARSEC. Based on two
epochs of astrometric data we derive a minimum semi-major axis of 5.2 +- 0.8
AU. The assumption of a face-on circular orbit yields an orbital period of 72
+- 4 years and a total system mass of 30-60 Mjup. This places the masses of the
individual components of the system at the lower end of the mass regime of
brown dwarfs. The achieved photometry allowed a first spectral type
determination of L9 +- 1 for each component. In addition, this seems to be only
the fifth resolved L/T transition binary with a flux reversal. While ultimate
explanations for this effect are still owing, the 2MASS J03105986+1648155
system adds an important benchmark object for improving our understanding of
this remarkable evolutionary phase of brown dwarfs. Additionally, the
observational results of 2MASS J03105986+1648155 AB derived with the new PARSEC
AO system at the VLT show the importance of this technical capability. The
updated AO system allows us to significantly extend the sample of brown dwarfs
observable with high-resolution from the ground and hence to reveal more of
their physical properties.