SNS is a MATLAB-based software library written to aid in the design and
analysis of receiver architectures. It uses electrical scattering matrices and
noise wave vectors to describe receiver architectures of arbitrary topology and
complexity. It differs from existing freely-available software mainly in that
the scattering matrices used to describe the receiver and its components are
analytic rather than numeric. This allows different types of modeling and
analysis of receivers to be performed. Non-ideal behavior of receiver
components can be parameterized in their scattering matrices. SNS enables the
instrument designer to then derive analytic expressions for the signal and
noise at the receiver outputs in terms of parameterized component
imperfections, and predict their contribution to receiver systematic errors
precisely. This can drive the receiver design process by, for instance,
allowing the instrument designer to identify which component imperfections
contribute most to receiver systematic errors, and hence place firm
specifications on individual components. Using SNS to perform this analysis is
preferable to traditional Jones matrix-based analysis as it includes internal
reflections and is able to model noise: two effects which Jones matrix analysis
is unable to describe. SNS can be used to model any receiver in which the
components can be described by scattering matrices. Of particular interest to
the sub-mm and terahertz frequency regime is the choice between coherent and
direct detection technologies. Steady improvements in mm and sub-mm Low Noise
Amplifiers (LNAs) mean that coherent receivers with LNAs as their first active
element are becoming increasingly competitive, in terms of sensitivity, with
bolometer-based receivers at frequencies above ~100 GHz. As an example of the
utility of SNS, we use it to compare two polarimeter architectures commonly
used to perform measurements of the polarized Cosmic Microwave Background:
differencing polarimeters, an architecture commonly used in polarization
sensitive bolometer-based polarimeters; and pseudo-correlation polarimeters, an
architecture commonly used in coherent, LNA-based, polarimeters. We
parameterize common sources of receiver systematic errors in both architectures
and compare them through their Mueller matrices, which encode how well the
instruments measure the Stokes parameters of the incident radiation. These
analytic Mueller matrices are used to demonstrate the different sources of
systematic errors in differencing and correlation polarimeters.