Direct imaging of brown dwarfs as companions to solar-type stars can provide
a wealth of well-constrained data to "benchmark" the physics of such objects,
since quantities like metallicity and age can be determined from their
well-studied primaries. We present results from an adaptive optics imaging
program on stars drawn from the Anglo-Australian and Keck Planet Search
projects, with the aim of directly imaging known cool companions. Simulations
have modeled the expected contrast ratios and separations of known companions
using estimates of orbital parameters available from current radial-velocity
data and then a selection of the best case objects were followed-up with high
contrast imaging to attempt to directly image these companions. These
simulations suggest that only a very small number of radial-velocity detected
exoplanets with consistent velocity fits and age estimates could potentially be
directly imaged using the VLT's Simultaneous Differential Imaging system and
only under favorable conditions. We also present detectability confidence
limits from the radial-velocity data sets and show how these can be used to
gain a better understanding of these systems when combined with the imaging
data. For HD32778 and HD91204 the detectabilities help little in constraining
the companion and hence almost all our knowledge is drawn from the SDI images.
Therefore, we can say that these stars do not host cool methane objects, out to
on-sky separations of ~2'', with contrasts less than 10-11 magnitudes. However,
for HD25874, HD120780 and HD145825, the contrasts and detectabilities can rule
out a number of possible solutions, particularly at low angular separations,
and for the best case, down to strong methane masses of 40MJ at 1'' separation.
The contrast curves constructed for these five stars show 5 sigma contrasts
(Delta F1) of ~9.2-11.5 magnitudes at separations of >/=0.6'', which correspond
to contrasts of ~9.7-12.0 magnitudes for companions of mid-T spectral type.
Such limits allow us to reach down to 40MJ around fairly old field dwarfs that
typically constitute high precision radial-velocity programs. Finally, the
analysis performed here can serve as a template for future projects that will
employ extreme-AO systems to directly image planets already indirectly
discovered by the radial-velocity method.