In light of the transformation defined in the current quantum field theory,
electromagnetic interaction is unchanged under time reversal. However, this
kind of time reversal only lets in the Hamiltonian of the coordinate space,
without considering that the creation and annihilation processes of particles
should also be reversed when the concrete problems are calculated in momentum
space. In fact, according to the current transformation of quantum field
theory, creation operator of spinor particle is still creation operator and
annihilation operator is also still annihilation operator. This result does not
represent the real meaning of time reversal. In the interaction process, a
particle's creation operator should become the annihilation operator and its
annihilation operator should become the creation operator after time reversal.
It is proved that when the reversion of creation and annihilation processes is
considered in momentum space, under the condition of high energy, a great
symmetry violation of time reversal would be caused in some low order processes
of electromagnetic interaction just as the Compton scattering in which the
propagation lines of fermions are contained. This result contradicts with the
experiments of particle physics and is impossible. Meanwhile, it is proved that
the normalization processes of the third order vertex angles of electromagnetic
interaction also violate time reversal symmetry, no matter in the coordinate
space or in the momentum space. But the symmetry violation is small with a
magnitude order about 10(-5). The similar problems exist in the current C
transformation of quantum field theory. The C transformation of creation and
annihilation operator can not be consistent with the C transformation of spinor
particle's wave functions in momentum space. We can obtain the correct C
transformation of creation and annihilation operator, but can not obtain the
correct C transformation of wave functions in momentum space. Therefore, the
current rules of C,T transformations in quantum field theory has serious defect
and should be redefined.