The photometry from 2MASS, UCAC3 and SuperCosmos catalogues together with the
proper motions from the Tycho-2, XPM and UCAC3 catalogues are used to select
the all-sky samples of 34 white dwarfs, 1996 evolved and 7769 unevolved
subdwarfs candidates for R from 9 to 17 magnitude. The samples are separated
from the main sequence with admixture less than 10% owing to the detailed
analysis of the distribution of the stars in the different color index (CI) vs.
reduced proper motion (RPM) diagrams for various latitudes with special
attention to the estimation of admixtures in the samples and with Monte-Carlo
simulation. It is shown that the XPM and UCAC3 have the same level of proper
motion accuracy. Most of the selected stars has at least 6-band photometry with
accuracy is proved to be better than 0.2. The multi-color photometry allows us
to eliminate some admixtures and reveal some binaries. The empirical
calibrations of absolute magnitude versus CI and RPM for Hipparcos stars give
us photometric distances and 3D distribution for all the stars. Although the
selection method and uneven distribution of the XPM and UCAC3 data provide
noticeable biases the preliminary conclusions are made. The subdwarfs show some
concentration to the galactic centre hemisphere with voids because of
extinction in the Gould belt and galactic plane. Some yet unexplained
overdensities of the evolved subdwarfs are seen in several parts of the sky.
For 183 stars with radial velocities 3D motion and galactic orbits are
calculated. For 56 stars with Fe/H collected from various sources we find the
relations of the metallicity with CI, asymmetric drift velocity and orbital
eccentricity. It is shown that most unevolved subdwarfs belong to the halo with
the scale height of $8\pm1$ kpc and local mass density of halo subdwarfs of
$2\cdot10^{-5} M\sun pc^{-3}$. Most evolved subdwarfs belong to the thick disk
with the scale height of $1.25\pm0.1$ kpc. Main parameters of the selected
stars are compiled into new SDWD catalogue for future investigations. Special
attention should be paid to spectroscopic observations of these stars because
53% of the selected white dwarfs, 94% of evolved and 98% of unevolved subdwarfs
are now classified for the first time whereas the existed spectral
classification is wrong in many cases.