Wolfgang Pauli's philosophy and physics were intertwined. His philosophy was
a variety of Platonism, in which Pauli's affiliation with Carl Jung formed an
integral part, but Pauli's philosophical explorations in physics appeared
before he met Jung. Jung validated Pauli's psycho-philosophical perspective.
Thus, the roots of Pauli's physics and philosophy are important in the history
of modern physics. In his early physics, Pauli attempted to ground his
theoretical physics in positivism. He then began instead to trust his intuitive
visualizations of entities that formed an underlying reality to the sensible
physical world. These visualizations included holistic kernels of
mathematical-physical entities that later became for him synonymous with Jung's
mandalas. I have connected Pauli's visualization patterns in physics during the
period 1900 to 1930 to the psychological philosophy of Jung and displayed some
examples of Pauli's creativity in the development of quantum mechanics. By
looking at Pauli's early physics and philosophy, we gain insight into Pauli's
contributions to quantum mechanics. His exclusion principle, his influence on
Werner Heisenberg in the formulation of matrix mechanics, his emphasis on firm
logical and empirical foundations, his creativity in formulating electron
spinors, his neutrino hypothesis, and his dialogues with other quantum
physicists, all point to Pauli being the dominant genius in the development of
quantum theory. Because Pauli was in a difficult individuation process during
his early years, his own writings on philosophy tend to be sparse and often
contradictory. My analysis of Pauli's physics and philosophy is based upon
published and unpublished sources, and Pauli's later reflections. A pattern has
emerged. Pauli changed his mind from relying on high rationality and
empiricism, to valuing intuitive metaphysical visualizations. This coupled with
disturbing events in his life precipitated a breakdown and led Pauli to seek
treatment at the Jung Clinic. Pauli's psychological tension diminished after
1932. His physics consistently involved symmetry and invariants. His philosophy
allied with Jung's resembled a Platonism of combined psyche and physics. Pauli
sought a rational unification and foundation for his philosophy, but that goal
was cut short by his untimely death at the age of 58.