On the basis of general relativity and quantum statistics, it was shown
(Neslu\v{s}an L.: 2009, Phys. Rev. D 80, 024015, arxiv:0808.3484) that the
equation of state (ES) of extremely hot Fermi-Dirac gas in the surface layer of
an ultra-relativistic compact object converges to the same form as the
relativistic equation of thermodynamical equilibrium (RETE), which is the
condition of stability of the object. The description of energy state of a gas
particle was completed with the term corresponding with the potential-type
energy. The necessity of such the term is set by the demand of convergence of
the relativistic particle-impulse distribution law to its Maxwell-Boltzmann
form in the classical limit.
  The identity of the ES and RETE, both applied to the gas in the object's
surface layer, becomes perfect, yielding the stable object, when the object's
physical radius is identical to its gravitational radius. In this state, the
internal energy of gas particles in a volume of the object's surface layer
increases over all limits in the frame of the volume and this opens the
question if the horizon of events actually is an insuperable barrier. It seems
to be possible that some matter can be temporarily lifted above the surface or,
so far, be ejected from the object and can emit a radiation detectable by a
distant observer.
  In our contribution, we demonstrate a general validity of the functional form
of the potential-type energy found in our previous work. The consistency of the
RETE with its non-relativistic approximation can occur only for this functional
form. We also point out some observational consequences of the approximate
identity of ES and RETE before the object collapses, in the proper time, to its
gravitational radius as well as the possible observational consequences of the
infinitely high internal energy in the surface layer of already collapsed
object. In general, we propagate the idea that a lot of phenomena observed at
the stellar-sized or supermassive black holes (or not-yet black holes) can be
not necessarily related to the structures in a vicinity of the black hole, e.g.
to an accretion disk, but they can be linked directly to the behaviour of the
central, ultra-compact object.