In this paper, a few novel data hiding techniques are proposed. These
techniques are improvements over the classical LSB data hiding technique and
the Fibonacci LSB data-hiding technique proposed by Battisti et al. \cite{r1}.
The classical LSB technique is the simplest, but using this technique it is
possible to embed only in first few bit-planes, since image quality becomes
drastically distorted when embedding in higher bit-planes. Battisti et al.
\cite{r1} proposed an improvement over this by using Fibonacci decomposition
technique and generating a different set of virtual bit-planes all together,
thereby increasing the number of bit-planes. In this paper, first we
mathematically model and generalize this particular approach of virtual
bit-plane generation. Then we propose two novel embedding techniques, both of
which are special-cases of our generalized model. The first embedding scheme is
based on decomposition of a number (pixel-value) in sum of prime numbers, while
the second one is based on decomposition in sum of natural numbers. Each of
these particular representations generates a different set of (virtual)
bit-planes altogether, suitable for embedding purposes. They not only allow one
to embed secret message in higher bit-planes but also do it without much
distortion, with a much better stego-image quality, in a reliable and secured
manner, guaranteeing efficient retrieval of secret message. A comparative
performance study between the classical Least Significant Bit (LSB) method, the
data hiding technique using Fibonacci -p-Sequence decomposition and our
proposed schemes has been done. Theoretical analysis indicates that image
quality of the stego-image hidden by the technique using Fibonacci
decomposition improves against simple LSB substitution method, while the same
using the prime decomposition method improves drastically against that using
Fibonacci decomposition technique, and finally the natural number decomposition
method is a further improvement against that using prime decomposition
technique. Also, optimality for the last technique is proved. For both of our
data-hiding techniques, the experimental results show that, the stego-image is
visually indistinguishable from the original cover image.