Magnetic nanoparticles (NP) of magnetite (Fe3O4) coated with oleic acid (OA)
and dodecanoic acid (DA) were synthesized and investigated through Transmission
Electron Microscopy (TEM),magnetization M, and ac magnetic susceptibility
measurements. The OA coated samples were produced with different magnetic
concentrations (78, 76, and 65%) and the DA sample with 63% of Fe3O4. Images
from TEM indicate that the NP have a nearly spherical geometry and mean
diameter ~ 5.5 nm. Magnetization measurements, performed in zero field cooled
(ZFC) and field cooled (FC) processes under different external magnetic fields
H, exhibited a maximum at a given temperature TB in the ZFC curves, which
depends on the NP coating (OA or DA), magnetite concentration, and H. The
temperature TB decreases monotonically with increasing H and, for a given H,
the increase in the magnetite concentration results in an increase of TB. The
observed behavior is related to the dipolar interaction (DI) between NP which
seems to be an important mechanism in all samples studied. This is supported by
the results of the ac magnetic susceptibility Xac measurements, where the
temperature in which X' peaks for different frequencies follows the
Vogel-Fulcher model, a feature commonly found in systems with dipolar
interactions. Curves of H vs. TB/TB(H=0) for samples with different coatings
and magnetite concentrations collapse into a universal curve, indicating that
the qualitative magnetic behavior of the samples may be described by the NP
themselves, instead of the coating or the strength of the dipolar interaction.
Below TB, M vs. H curves show a coercive field (HC) that increases
monotonically with decreasing temperature. The saturation magnetization (MS)
follows the Bloch's law and values of MS at room temperature as high as 78
emu/g were estimated, a result corresponding to ~80% of the bulk value. The
overlap of M/MS vs. H/T curves for a given sample and the low HC at high
temperatures suggest superparamagnetic behavior in all samples studied. The
overlap of M/MS vs. H curves at constant temperature for different samples
indicates that the NP magnetization behavior is preserved, independently of the
coating and magnetite concentration.